---
layout: post
title:  Summer Vacation Brain Funk
date:   2015-08-11 12:00:00 -0700
tags: tag
summary: 'This is a post'
tagline: 'tagline here'
---

[<p>Some people forget to pack their shorts or extra underwear or hairspray when they go on vacation, but this summer I forgot to pack my brain.</p>, <p>My \u201cbrain funk\u201d began to show its ugly face in full force when I paid for parking at a meter that did not need to be paid after 7 p.m. Yes, it was indeed past 7 p.m. Although I will share only half of that blame as the meter should be rigged NOT to accept payment during the free hours. I\u2019m just saying\u2026</p>, <p>On another night, I left a restaurant with friends, having forgotten to A) sign for my bill and B) take my credit card with me. I\u2019d never done such a thing before and it, quite frankly, scared me a little. I\u2019m not sure who was more relieved when I re-entered the restaurant- me for finding my card safe and sound, or the waiter who likely wanted a tip for his work.</p>, <p>Later, when settling down to read a book (The Girl on the Train), I was disappointed when I couldn\u2019t find my reading glasses. After an intensive search of all my bags and around my mother\u2019s house where I was staying, I spun into full panic, realizing I\u2019d actually lost my glasses. My new glasses!</p>, <p>Unfortunately, I didn\u2019t\xa0stop there; I also suffered bouts of direction amnesia. Twice I went to my cousin\u2019s house, passing her street both times, turning down a different road each time, losing my way. Honestly, it was as though my mind had been removed the minute I crossed state lines.</p>, <p>I did go back to the restaurant to retrieve my credit card (and actually pay my bill!); I found my cousin\u2019s house AND took the correct route without incident upon my third trip there; and I did indeed find my \u201clost\u201d glasses in my suitcase when I returned home from the trip. This \u201cbrain recovery\u201d gave me some solace that I hadn\u2019t totally lost my mind, but I\u2019m still a little shaken from so many incidents. The good news is that there is a cure for vacation brain funk: arriving back home and diving into familiar routines. Simply getting back to work on daily work projects has\xa0settled my brain back into my\xa0head and strapped it in place. Well\u2026as in place as It ever can be.</p>, <p>I hope I pull off my next vacation without incident. I shall put brain at the top of my packing list! One should, in my humble opinion, not\xa0leave home without it. Though, admittedly, doing so can lead to some interesting adventures. But\u2026I\u2019m not sure I want to take my chances\xa0as interesting could easily be replaced with horrifying, or just plain frustrating. \U0001f609</p>]