---
layout: post
title:  Another Short Story
date:   2015-03-10 12:00:00 -0700
tags: tag
summary: 'This is a post'
tagline: 'tagline here'
---

[<p>Okay, I\u2019ve written yet another short story. A \u201creal\u201d short story, not a short, short for a contest entry. But I\u2019m not going to print the story here or say what it\u2019s about (Ooh! How mysterious, right?). I\u2019m mentioning it because as I take baby steps and sometimes giant, scary leaps into this \u201cside adventure\u201d of writing short stories while still working on my second novel, I hope and plan to share with you\xa0what I discover on my journey.</p>, <p>So if you have any interest in venturing into the world of writing (and hopefully selling) short stories, stay tuned. Or at least check in every now and again for tips and even some possible (probable?) stories of me tripping over a crack in the \u201csidewalk\u201d as I follow this new path. But don\u2019t despair, I will also share with you how I pick myself up and continue forward. Because I\u2019m crazy like that. Optimism and hope fuel me, so I can assure you I do pick myself up.</p>, <p>Here is what I\u2019ve learned so far:</p>, <p>1- Writing short stories is like writing novels only shorter. The writing is tighter.</p>, <p>2- I love writing tight.</p>, <p>3- Writing is \u201ceasy\u201d; marketing is the hard part.</p>, <p>4- The more you read, the more you learn about the craft of writing and the business of writing.</p>, <p>5- Short stories CAN have happy endings!</p>, <p>6-\xa0Blogging does not come easy for me.</p>, <p>Okay, so I\u2019ve learned a lot more things (thankfully!), but\xa0sharing 1-6\xa0is\xa0a good place to start.</p>, <p>What you\u2019ll notice if you check in on my blog now and again is that I prefer to write for inspiration and encouragement (giving those things, that is) more so than instructional or what have you. But I\u2019ll do my best to supply a mix of all those things.</p>, <p>I haven\u2019t been a fan of reading short stories in the past, but when I found myself drawn to writing some,\xa0I needed to venture out and educate myself on the process. What I found pleased me. There are a LOT of short stories and a myriad different ways to write them. The only rule is to keep it tight and, of course, short. Or at least shorter than most novels. Even the length varies! But mostly I was thrilled to discover that any story is acceptable. Meaning, write what you want, what you like, what thrills and interests you. Make your story precise, interesting and short, and voila! You have yourself a short story.</p>, <p>I sum it up this way because, being someone who likes precise instruction, I read through books about how to write short stories only to find I already knew all that stuff. Not to say I\u2019m a know-it-all, but to express that if you know how to form fiction into a story, you are ready to write a short story (or novel!).\xa0So get to it. Take on the task with confidence and knowledge that you already possess what it takes. And keep reading! Long or short, doesn\u2019t matter. Reading is your teacher.</p>, <p>So, aspiring short-story writers, I leave you know with a book recommendation. An oldie but very goodie. Guy de Maupassant. His personal story is tragic, but his short story collections are wonderful. Read and learn. It\u2019s better than any \u201chow-to\u201d you\u2019ll read.</p>, <p><a href="http://americanliterature.com/author/guy-de-maupassant/bio-books-stories" rel="nofollow">http://americanliterature.com/author/guy-de-maupassant/bio-books-stories</a></p>, <p>Enjoy!</p>]