---
layout: post
title:  Writing inspiration
date:   2015-02-10 12:00:00 -0700
tags: tag
summary: 'This is a post'
tagline: 'tagline here'
---

[<p>What inspires me to write?</p>, <p>This is, I know, the burning question on everyone\u2019s mind, so I\u2019m finally bringing you the answer: reading. It\u2019s as simple as that. When I\u2019m reading a book I truly enjoy and connect with, my entire body hums with the desire to write. Honestly. I can\u2019t wait to sit down in front of the computer and create a totally awesome piece of fiction (or at least the beginning of what will\u2013surely?\u2013become totally awesome).</p>, <p>Don\u2019t misunderstand, I don\u2019t read a book then write about the same topic. It\u2019s really the writing that inspires me more than the specific story I\u2019m reading. Does that make sense? When I read a book where I feel the writing is smart, witty, tight (not a lot of blah blah blah descriptions of scene or emotions), relatable and entertaining, I go nuts. Not every book fulfills those points for me, unfortunately, so when I find those that do, I can\u2019t wait to sit down and attempt to do the same thing (again, not a duplicate of the story, but of the art of the writing).</p>, <p>An example of SOME of the books that have inspired me to keep writing:</p>, <p>\u201cThe Language of Flowers\u201d by Vanessa Diffenbaugh, \u201cLondon Falling\u201d by Emma Carr, \u201cBlackberry Winter\u201d by Sarah Jio and \u201cBridge of Scarlet Leaves\u201d, by Kristina McMorris.</p>, <p>Of course there are many more, and there are also those\xa0that inspired me in\xa0general\xa0(not just my writing)\xa0such as \u201cUnbroken\u201d by Laura Hillenbrand, The \u201cJosephine B.\u201d trilogy by Sandra Gulland as well as all three books in The Century Trilogy by Ken Follett. Again, only a few listed here, but there are more.</p>, <p>Ironically, growing up, I wasn\u2019t much of a reader. I wasn\u2019t one of those girls who disappeared into the world of a book for any length of time. I read for school (required reading only) and that was about the extent of it. Not until my mid-thirties did I really develop into a true reader, a lover of books. Now, I\u2019m not happy unless I have at least one book to read. And sometimes I\u2019ll\xa0alternate between reading\xa0two books at the same time. That is to say I have them both in my house for reading at the same time and alternate between them at different times of the day, not\xa0actually reading them literally at the same time. Just so we\u2019re clear.</p>, <p>So reading is as much of a gift to me as my (presumed) talent in writing. I \u201cneed\u201d both of them in my life for the sake of happiness. I feel out of sorts when I don\u2019t have a book at home to read and I\u2019m even deeper out of sorts when I go too long without writing.</p>, <p>It\u2019s good to know and follow our passions (unless that passion is very naughty\u2026 You fill in the rest). So I encourage all of you to do just that. Find what makes you feel fulfilled and inspires you to want more, then make it happen. And I\u2019m not talking chocolate, though it does both those things for many of us, am I right?</p>, <p>Happy reading!</p>]